---
layout: paper
paper_title: Machine learning-based analysis of sperm videos and participant data for male fertility prediction
paper_authors: Steven A Hicks, Jorunn M Andersen, Oliwia Witczak, Vajira Thambawita, Pål Halvorsen, Hugo L Hammer, Trine B Haugen, Michael A Riegler
pdf_link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-019-53217-y.pdf
published: 2019
---

Methods for automatic analysis of clinical data are usually targeted towards a specific modality and do not make use of all relevant data available. In the field of male human reproduction, clinical and biological data are not used to its fullest potential. Manual evaluation of a semen sample using a microscope is time-consuming and requires extensive training. Furthermore, the validity of manual semen analysis has been questioned due to limited reproducibility, and often high inter-personnel variation. The existing computer-aided sperm analyzer systems are not recommended for routine clinical use due to methodological challenges caused by the consistency of the semen sample. Thus, there is a need for an improved methodology. We use modern and classical machine learning techniques together with a dataset consisting of 85 videos of human semen samples and related participant data to automatically predict sperm motility. Used techniques include simple linear regression and more sophisticated methods using convolutional neural networks. Our results indicate that sperm motility prediction based on deep learning using sperm motility videos is rapid to perform and consistent. Adding participant data did not improve the algorithms performance. In conclusion, machine learning-based automatic analysis may become a valuable tool in male infertility investigation and research.

