---
layout: paper
paper_title: PSYKOSE- A Motor Activity Database of Patients with Schizophrenia
paper_authors: Petter Jakobsen, Enrique Garcia Ceja, Lena Antonsen Stabell, Ketil Joachim Oedegaard, Jan Oystein Berle, Vajira Thambawita, Steven Hicks, Pål Halvorsen, Michael Riegler, Ole Bernt Fasmer
pdf_link: https://osf.io/e2tzf/download?format=pdf
published: 2020-08
---

Using sensor data from devices such as smart-watches or mobile phones is very popular in both computer science and medical research. Such movement data can predict certain health states or performance outcomes. However, in order to increase reliability and replication of the research, it is important to share data and results openly. In medicine, this is often difficult due to legal restrictions or to the fact that data collected from clinical trials is seen as very valuable and something that should be kept "in-house". In this paper, we therefore present PSYKOSE, a publicly shared dataset consisting of motor activity data collected from body sensors. The dataset contains data collected from patients with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder characterized by psychotic symptoms like hallucinations and delusions, as well as symptoms of cognitive dysfunction and diminished motivation. In total, we have data from 22 patients with schizophrenia and 32 healthy control persons. For each person in the dataset, we provide sensor data collected over several days in a row. In addition to the sensor data, we also provide some demographic data and medical assessments during the observation period. The patients were assessed by medical experts from Haukeland University hospital. In addition to the data, we provide a baseline analysis and possible use-cases of the dataset.